# A3-testing

This is my Assignment 1 for BINF6210 Course

#Introduction :

Tardigrada, a phylum of species that are extremely well resistant and highly adaptive to extreme environments such as droughts, extreme temperatures, high radiation, and hypoxia regions (Kasianchuk et al., 2023). They are microscopic animals that often come in sizes that cannot be visible by eyes. Most interestingly, their dormancy in droughts and hypoxia regions allows them to change their morphology to remove excessive water from their body and enter into a state called cryptobiosis (Møbjerg & Neves, 2021). During this state, they pause their metabolism, reducing the requirement of energy to withstand extreme conditions for an extended period of time.
Genetic variation is known to be correlated with environmental changes. A previous research done by Singleton and his team in 2021 has indicated that genetic diversity has weaker effect as the temperature reaches species’ peak tolerance (Singleton et al., 2021). For species like Tardigrada with high resilience to withstand extreme conditions, it raises a question whether this indication also holds true. It is reasonable to hypothesize that they are more genetically diverse in extreme conditions such as the arctic and antarctica regions in comparison to temperate regions, because they are less responsive to the temperature changes. This study aims to explore the genetic diversity of Tardigrada phylum using the Barcode of Life (BOLD) database to analyze the genetic variance in geographic point of view.


#Result and Discussion :

There are 105 different species found in temperate conditions, while 121 species were found in extreme conditions. The mean of elevation for species collected from temperate conditions is 596.04m. This also validates the species that were found in temperate conditions, they were not inhabited in high altitude regions that are more extreme in conditions compared to the other group. This result does not show a significant difference in species diversity from different conditions. Therefore, the data does not support the hypothesis that greater diversity of Tardigrada will be found in extreme environments. This could be due to the fact that under temperate conditions, those species of Tardigrada do not experience as many environmental stressors, allowing them to maintain a more stable population and avoid selective pressure. This increase in stable population will eventually drive an increase in genetic diversity, because more of them have to adapt to other ecosystems for resources availability.
It was found that the most abundant species with the BIN number of BOLD:AAV0429, inhabited in Antarctica (extreme condition, Figure 2). In comparison to the map that shows the genetic distribution of all Tardigrada species (Figure 1), the majority of the species are found in Europe and the North American continent. This species is called Acutuncus antarcticus. The result in high abundance of such species, allow insight for future
research to focus on the evolutionary adaptation that allows this species to thrive in such hard environment yet continues to be so abundant. By understanding the adaptation mechanism of this species, it might help to explain the mystery behind how Tardigrada is able to cope with harsh environments.
The BOLD dataset used for this study contained various missing values, which significantly impact on the analysis and might have not provided the full story about Tardigrada. If this project was able to be done with combined datasets from another database system, one can provide more detailed and reliable proofs about the genetic diversity of Tardigrada.
